# Language Analytics Assignment 3
## Assignment description
This repository contains my solutions to assignment 3 for the Language Analytics course at Aarhus university. The goal of this assignment is to write a program that can load, analyse, and visualize a network from, in theory, any edgelist, if it is formatted correctly. The user should be able to input either a single file or a directory of files of the same format.     

## Methods
Depending on whether the user input ends in .csv, the script categorizes the input as either a file or directory – if it is seen as a file, it is loaded, then turned into a graph-object, plotted, and then used to calculate centrality scores (this is done using the [networkx](https://pypi.org/project/networkx/) python module). If the input is seen as a directory, the same is done for all files in the directory.     

## Repository structure
in: Folder for input data    
notebooks: Folder for experimental code    
output: Folder for the output generated by the script – for each network analyzed, the script generates two outputs – an example of the file-structure can be seen below (though the “output” folder at present contains 10 pairs of these files):    
-	{filename_of_edgelist}_df.csv:
    - Output of the network_analysis.py script – dataframe containing centrality metrics for each node in the edgelist. The column “names” contains the name of the node, “degrees” contains the node’s degree centrality, “betweenness” contains the node’s betweenness centrality, and “eigenvector” contains the node’s eigenvector centrality. 
- {filename_of_edgelist}_net.png:
    - Output of the network_analysis.py script – an undirected network graph of the nodes and edges in the edgelist. 

src: Folder for python scripts    
-	\_\_init__.py
- Network_analysis.py

github_link.txt: link to github repository    
requirements.txt: txt file containing the modules required to run the code    

## Usage
Modules listed in requirements.txt should be installed before scripts are run.    
__Note about requirements to run the script__    
It is important that both the network and scipy are up to date – if this is true and there is still issues, try uninstalling and downgrading network to networkx==2.6.3    
__input data__    
the individual edgelists should be tap dilimited csv files with at least three columns. "Source" for one of the nodes in the edge, "Target" for the other, and "Weight" for the weight of the edge. The edges should be undirected.    

__network_analysis.py__    
To analyze the data, run network_analysis.py from the Language_Analytics_A3 repository folder. The script has one argument:    
- _-i or --input: The input data for the script - either a file or directory – this argument is required_

Example of code running the script from the terminal:    
```
python src/network_analysis.py -i directory_or_file_name
```

## Discussion of results
I ran the script on data provided by the course instructor [Ross Deans Kristensen-McLachlan](https://github.com/rdkm89).    
Looking at the networks graphs in the output folder, most of the networks seem to have a similar structure – a (more or less) tightly knit center with only a few nodes with less connections. There are, however, exceptions. For example, in 2H4_net.png, the network has two longer branches of nodes that are less connected to those in the center, and the network in H5_net.png seems to have three different larger clusters.    
